three two your spaceship is now soaring
high above the planet if you expected to
get a good view of the Great Wall of
China sorry it's impossible but you will
get an awesome look at one huge living
creature and plenty of other ginormous
things - that must be the Grand Canyon
down there the only way to see the
canyon that's bigger than the entire
state of Rhode Island all at once is
from space it's so huge that different
parts of it have different climates it's
also still changing shape thanks to the
Colorado River but very slowly of course
it's not actually the deepest Canyon in
the world though let's go a bit farther
to the north to the Rocky Mountain
trench in Canada don't believe the
popular rumor you can't actually see the
famous trench from the moon but the
International Space Station provides
perfect views of it it separates the
Columbia Mountains in the West from the
Canadian Rockies in the east plus it's
home to many wild animals up next the
Himalayas it's not the only mountain
range that can be seen from space but it
sure is the most impressive with the
world's highest peaks the Himalayas
began to form around 40 million years
ago I wasn't around then which makes
them a very young mountain range there's
only one living thing on earth that you
can see from space the Great Barrier
Reef
it's the largest coral reef on the
planet just off the northeastern coast
of Australia it's longer than the entire
western coast of the US and it's made up
of 900 reef islands they're home to
billions of fish marine animals and
corals the reef has been forming slowly
for centuries ooh what's that noise it
seems to be getting hot in here oh there
must be a volcano keeping an eye on
volcanoes from space is crucial for
protecting people from the effects of
eruptions even if you live far away from
one volcanic ash is really bad for your
lungs and it's super dangerous for
planes scientists monitor both active
and inactive
volcanoes just in case you know I love
how green the earth looks from up here
satellites notice any changes in
vegetation when it's dark green that
means an ecosystem is healthy a brown
color means things are pretty bad since
it's caused by a drought or some other
natural disaster but what's that bright
spot in the ocean you can't see these
tiny plants up close but phytoplankton
that have clumped together can form a
whole forest in the ocean it looks
almost like a water color from space it
also multiplies in no time and serves as
a food source for all sorts of sea
creatures the dark area is Lake Caracol
in the Pamir mountains it isn't the only
lake that can be seen from space but
it's still pretty amazing it formed in
the crater of a meteor that fell to
earth between 25 and 5 million years ago
it's located in one of the driest places
in Central Asia and this green area here
is the Nepal um ice forest this forest
in Poland has been under state
protection since the 13th century when
it became part of the royal estate now
it's managed in sections for different
purposes and that difference can be seen
from above moving on you can't confuse
this one with anything else that's the
Amazon River no one knows exactly where
it starts and where it ends but what we
do know is that the Amazon is about as
long as the Great Wall of China that's
why you can't take a picture of the
whole river at once even from a Space
Station it's just too big another fun
fact several million years ago it float
in the opposite direction
speaking of rivers the Ganges has the
largest Delta in the world that huge
triangle down there brings the waters
from several other rivers into Bengal
Bay the unusual colors that can be seen
from orbit are the sediments leftover
from when the rivers empty even though
there's a risk of floods more than 125
million people live in the Delta what's
that rapid movement down there it looks
exactly like a picture of a hurricane
from a geography textbook it's important
to keep track of these storms from up
here
to help protect as many people back on
earth as possible that massive brown
clump is moving way too fast to be a
cloud that's because it's a dust storm
they form in dry climates and tracking
them can also save a lot of lives you'll
see some man-made objects from up here
too of course city lights at night
bridges
it looks like I'm above the Arizona
desert right now what are those little
lines all over the place there desert
roads
unlike roads going through the mountains
and forests these ones aren't hidden by
the landscape one other cool thing you
could spot in the sands or rather three
cool things are the Great Pyramids of
Giza the largest of them is taller than
29 double-decker buses even though
they're pretty huge you still need a
professional high-resolution camera to
get a picture of them from orbit the
next stop on our orbital tour isn't too
far away but I think I just missed it
let's go back a little ah there you go
Palm Island Resort the construction of
these artificial islands off the coast
of Dubai started in 2001 sand was taken
directly from the bottom of the Persian
Gulf to make them there are two palm
trees shaped islands as well as one
shaped like a map of the whole world
that's made up of 300 smaller islands
they say they're going to also add a
solar system shape on to the group let's
head west again did someone drop a bunch
of plastic on Spain my maps telling me
that these are the greenhouses of
Almeria the first one was built in 1963
and it's grown to become the largest
group of greenhouses in the world they
produce tons of vegetables and fruit
every year the chances are you've eaten
something that was produced here I hear
there's a gigantic chessboard on the
ground in northern Idaho let's go check
it out it turns out the white areas are
covered in snow
since the woods here used to be for
timber the dark areas are covered with
trees I can also see quite a few
gigantic holes in the ground there
copper mines one of the largest of them
is the Kennecott Copper Mine in Utah
they say it's given the world more
copper than any other mined in history
over the past
years hey what's mine is yours if only
from space